docs/src/model_setup/tracers.md, before:

# Tracers

The tracers to be advected around can be specified via a list of symbols. By default the model doesn't evolve any
tracers.

```@meta
DocTestSetup = quote
    using Oceananigans
end
```

```jldoctest tracers
julia> grid = RectilinearGrid(size=(64, 64, 64), extent=(1, 1, 1));

julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid)
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded}(Nx=64, Ny=64, Nz=64)
├── tracers: ()
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

But tracers can be added with the `tracer` keyword. For example to add temperature `T` and salinity
`S`:


```jldoctest tracers
julia> grid = RectilinearGrid(size=(64, 64, 64), extent=(1, 1, 1));

julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid, tracers=(:T, :S))
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded}(Nx=64, Ny=64, Nz=64)
├── tracers: (:T, :S)
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

whose fields can be accessed via `model.tracers.T` and `model.tracers.S`.

```jldoctest tracers
julia> model.tracers.T
Field located at (Center, Center, Center)
├── data: OffsetArrays.OffsetArray{Float64, 3, Array{Float64, 3}}, size: (64, 64, 64)
├── grid: RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded}(Nx=64, Ny=64, Nz=64)
└── boundary conditions: west=Periodic, east=Periodic, south=Periodic, north=Periodic, bottom=ZeroFlux, top=ZeroFlux, immersed=ZeroFlux

julia> model.tracers.S
Field located at (Center, Center, Center)
├── data: OffsetArrays.OffsetArray{Float64, 3, Array{Float64, 3}}, size: (64, 64, 64)
├── grid: RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded}(Nx=64, Ny=64, Nz=64)
└── boundary conditions: west=Periodic, east=Periodic, south=Periodic, north=Periodic, bottom=ZeroFlux, top=ZeroFlux, immersed=ZeroFlux
```

Any number of arbitrary tracers can be appended to this list and passed to a model constructor. For example, to evolve
quantities ``C_1``, CO₂, and nitrogen as additional passive tracers you could set them up as

```jldoctest tracers
julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid, tracers=(:T, :S, :C₁, :CO₂, :nitrogen))
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded}(Nx=64, Ny=64, Nz=64)
├── tracers: (:T, :S, :C₁, :CO₂, :nitrogen)
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

!!! info "Active vs. passive tracers"
    An active tracer typically denotes a tracer quantity that affects the fluid dynamics through buoyancy. In the ocean
    temperature and salinity are active tracers. Passive tracers, on the other hand, typically do not affect the fluid
    dynamics are are _passively_ advected around by the flow field.

Commit message:

Overhauls `show` and `summary` (#2161)
* Strikes short_show from code

* Omits short_show from benchmark scripts

* Updates summary and show for grids

* Prettying up show

* Bugfix in summary(::LatitudeLongitudeGrid)

* Update rectilinear grid docstring

* Updates docstrings

* Fix doctest in model_setup/grids

* Fixes prettysummary and doctests for continuous forcing and discrete forcing

* Puts topology back in summary(::RectilinearGrid) and updates doctests

* Cleans up tracer docs

* Bugfix in show for abstract operations

* Updates docstrings

* Updates multiary docstring

* Update pipeline.yml

* Fix more doctests

* Bugfix in buoyancy/eos docs

docs/src/model_setup/tracers.md, after:

# Tracers

The tracers to be advected around can be specified via a list of symbols. By default the model doesn't evolve any
tracers.

```@meta
DocTestSetup = quote
    using Oceananigans
end
```

```jldoctest tracers
julia> grid = RectilinearGrid(size=(64, 64, 64), extent=(1, 1, 1));

julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid)
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: 64×64×64 RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded} on CPU with 1×1×1 halo
├── tracers: ()
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

But tracers can be added with the `tracers` keyword.
For example, to add conservative temperature `T` and absolute salinity `S`:

```jldoctest tracers
julia> grid = RectilinearGrid(size=(64, 64, 64), extent=(1, 1, 1));

julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid, tracers=(:T, :S))
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: 64×64×64 RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded} on CPU with 1×1×1 halo
├── tracers: (:T, :S)
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

whose fields can be accessed via `model.tracers.T` and `model.tracers.S`.

```jldoctest tracers
julia> model.tracers.T
64×64×64 Field{Center, Center, Center} on RectilinearGrid on CPU
├── grid: 64×64×64 RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded} on CPU with 1×1×1 halo
├── boundary conditions: west=Periodic, east=Periodic, south=Periodic, north=Periodic, bottom=ZeroFlux, top=ZeroFlux, immersed=ZeroFlux
└── data: 66×66×66 OffsetArray(::Array{Float64, 3}, 0:65, 0:65, 0:65) with eltype Float64 with indices 0:65×0:65×0:65
    └── max=0.0, min=0.0, mean=0.0

julia> model.tracers.S
64×64×64 Field{Center, Center, Center} on RectilinearGrid on CPU
├── grid: 64×64×64 RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded} on CPU with 1×1×1 halo
├── boundary conditions: west=Periodic, east=Periodic, south=Periodic, north=Periodic, bottom=ZeroFlux, top=ZeroFlux, immersed=ZeroFlux
└── data: 66×66×66 OffsetArray(::Array{Float64, 3}, 0:65, 0:65, 0:65) with eltype Float64 with indices 0:65×0:65×0:65
    └── max=0.0, min=0.0, mean=0.0
```

An arbitrary number of tracers may be simulated. For example, to simulate
``C_1``, ``CO₂``, and `nitrogen` as additional passive tracers,

```jldoctest tracers
julia> model = NonhydrostaticModel(grid=grid, tracers=(:T, :S, :C₁, :CO₂, :nitrogen))
NonhydrostaticModel{CPU, Float64}(time = 0 seconds, iteration = 0)
├── grid: 64×64×64 RectilinearGrid{Float64, Periodic, Periodic, Bounded} on CPU with 1×1×1 halo
├── tracers: (:T, :S, :C₁, :CO₂, :nitrogen)
├── closure: Nothing
├── buoyancy: Nothing
└── coriolis: Nothing
```

!!! info "Active versus passive tracers"
    An active tracer is a tracer whose distribution affects the evolution of momentum and other tracers.
    Typical ocean models evolve conservative temperature and absolute salinity as active tracers,
    which effect momentum through buoyancy forces.
    Passive tracers are "passive" in the sense that their distribution does not affect
    the evolution of other tracers or flow quantities.
