docs/src/model_setup/turbulent_diffusivity_closures_and_les_models.md, before:

# Turbulent diffusivity closures and large eddy simulation models

A turbulent diffusivity closure representing the effects of viscous dissipation and diffusion can be passed via the
`closure` keyword.

See [turbulence closures](@ref numerical_closures) and [large eddy simulation](@ref numerical_les) for more details
on turbulent diffusivity closures.

## Constant isotropic diffusivity

To use constant isotropic values for the viscosity ``\nu`` and diffusivity ``\kappa`` you can use [`ScalarDiffusivity`](@ref)

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-2, κ=1e-2)
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.01, κ=0.01
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.ThreeDimensional
```

## Constant anisotropic diffusivity

To specify constant values for the horizontal and vertical viscosities, ``\nu_h`` and ``\nu_z``, and horizontal and vertical
diffusivities, ``\kappa_h`` and ``\kappa_z``, you can use [`ScalarDiffusivity(isotropy = Horizontal())`](@ref) and
[`ScalarDiffusivity(isotropy = Vertical())`](@ref)

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures: Horizontal, Vertical

julia> horizontal_closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-3, κ=2e-3, isotropy=Horizontal())
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.001, κ=0.002
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Horizontal

julia> vertical_closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-3, κ=2e-3, isotropy=Vertical())
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.001, κ=0.002
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Vertical

```

After that you can set `closure = (horizontal_closure, vertical_closure)` when constructing the model so that
all components will be taken into account when calculating the diffusivity term.

## Smagorinsky-Lilly

To use the Smagorinsky-Lilly LES closure, no parameters are required

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = SmagorinskyLilly()
SmagorinskyLilly: C=0.16, Cb=1.0, Pr=1.0, ν=0.0, κ=0.0
```

although they may be specified. By default, the background viscosity and diffusivity are assumed to be the molecular
values for seawater. For more details see [`SmagorinskyLilly`](@ref).

## Anisotropic minimum dissipation

To use the constant anisotropic minimum dissipation (AMD) LES closure,

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = AnisotropicMinimumDissipation()
AnisotropicMinimumDissipation{Float64} turbulence closure with:
           Poincaré constant for momentum eddy viscosity Cν: 0.08333333333333333
    Poincaré constant for tracer(s) eddy diffusivit(ies) Cκ: 0.08333333333333333
                        Buoyancy modification multiplier Cb: nothing
                Background diffusivit(ies) for tracer(s), κ: 0.0
             Background kinematic viscosity for momentum, ν: 0.0
```

no parameters are required although they may be specified. By default, the background viscosity and diffusivity
are assumed to be the molecular values for seawater. For more details see [`AnisotropicMinimumDissipation`](@ref).

## Convective Adjustment Vertical Diffusivity--Viscosity

To use the a convective adjustment scheme that applies enhanced values for vertical diffusivity ``\kappa_z`` and/or
viscosity ``\nu_z``, anytime and anywhere the background stratification becomes unstable.

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans

julia> closure = ConvectiveAdjustmentVerticalDiffusivity(convective_κz = 1.0, background_κz = 1e-3)
ConvectiveAdjustmentVerticalDiffusivity: (background_κz=0.001, convective_κz=1.0, background_νz=0.0, convective_νz=0.0)
```

Commit message:

added information about XYDirection scheme to docs

docs/src/model_setup/turbulent_diffusivity_closures_and_les_models.md, after:

# Turbulent diffusivity closures and large eddy simulation models

A turbulent diffusivity closure representing the effects of viscous dissipation and diffusion can be passed via the
`closure` keyword.

See [turbulence closures](@ref numerical_closures) and [large eddy simulation](@ref numerical_les) for more details
on turbulent diffusivity closures.

## Constant isotropic diffusivity

To use constant isotropic values for the viscosity ``\nu`` and diffusivity ``\kappa`` you can use [`ScalarDiffusivity`](@ref)

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-2, κ=1e-2)
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.01, κ=0.01
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.XYZDirections
```

## Constant anisotropic diffusivity

To specify constant values for the horizontal and vertical viscosities, ``\nu_h`` and ``\nu_z``, and horizontal and vertical
diffusivities, ``\kappa_h`` and ``\kappa_z``, you can use [`ScalarDiffusivity(isotropy = XYDirections())`](@ref) and
[`ScalarDiffusivity(isotropy = ZDirection())`](@ref)

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures: XYDirections, ZDirection

julia> horizontal_closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-3, κ=2e-3, isotropy=XYDirections())
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.001, κ=0.002
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.XYDirections

julia> vertical_closure = ScalarDiffusivity(ν=1e-3, κ=2e-3, isotropy=ZDirection())
ScalarDiffusivity:
ν=0.001, κ=0.002
time discretization: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.Explicit()
isotropy: Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures.ZDirection

```

After that you can set `closure = (horizontal_closure, vertical_closure)` when constructing the
model so that all components will be taken into account when calculating the diffusivity term. Note
that `ScalarDiffusivity`s with `isotropy=XYDirections()` are implemented using a [different
scheme](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algorithm/algorithm.html#horizontal-dissipation)
from `isotropy=XYZDirections()` and `isotropy=ZDirections()` that conserves potential vorticity.

## Smagorinsky-Lilly

To use the Smagorinsky-Lilly LES closure, no parameters are required

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = SmagorinskyLilly()
SmagorinskyLilly: C=0.16, Cb=1.0, Pr=1.0, ν=0.0, κ=0.0
```

although they may be specified. By default, the background viscosity and diffusivity are assumed to be the molecular
values for seawater. For more details see [`SmagorinskyLilly`](@ref).

## Anisotropic minimum dissipation

To use the constant anisotropic minimum dissipation (AMD) LES closure,

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans.TurbulenceClosures

julia> closure = AnisotropicMinimumDissipation()
AnisotropicMinimumDissipation{Float64} turbulence closure with:
           Poincaré constant for momentum eddy viscosity Cν: 0.08333333333333333
    Poincaré constant for tracer(s) eddy diffusivit(ies) Cκ: 0.08333333333333333
                        Buoyancy modification multiplier Cb: nothing
                Background diffusivit(ies) for tracer(s), κ: 0.0
             Background kinematic viscosity for momentum, ν: 0.0
```

no parameters are required although they may be specified. By default, the background viscosity and diffusivity
are assumed to be the molecular values for seawater. For more details see [`AnisotropicMinimumDissipation`](@ref).

## Convective Adjustment Vertical Diffusivity--Viscosity

To use the a convective adjustment scheme that applies enhanced values for vertical diffusivity ``\kappa_z`` and/or
viscosity ``\nu_z``, anytime and anywhere the background stratification becomes unstable.

```jldoctest
julia> using Oceananigans

julia> closure = ConvectiveAdjustmentVerticalDiffusivity(convective_κz = 1.0, background_κz = 1e-3)
ConvectiveAdjustmentVerticalDiffusivity: (background_κz=0.001, convective_κz=1.0, background_νz=0.0, convective_νz=0.0)
```
